A normal HTTP connection is a stateless connection.
Whereas a websocket connection is stateful connection.
Here memory is consumed in server - and there is also something called as file descriptor

So inorder to maintain the connection memory is consumed to maintain the connection.

Although howmuch ever memory we have, let say 1TB of RAM but still it is limited.

So now when this memory is limited then how do we handle users at scale

Now we can just scale our server:
Let say, 4GB ram is able to handle - 1000 users
When my server is about to hit 1000 users we scale the server from 4GB to 8GB ram
And now it can handle around 2000 users. When the server is about to hit 2000 users 
again we scale it. This is vertical scaling.

But vertical scaling has a drawback
When we have to first we need to shutdown our server and increase the resources
and then we have to restart it with the new specs

So it is not possible to scale a running server - bad user experience.

Now we have to scale it horizontally using redis. Will continue...

---- Linux -----

In linux everything is a file.
What socket we create can be said as a network socket and this can also be a file 
When we make a connection then a files is created  called as file descriptor. It just contains a flag as a number 
saying that we have opened a resource

Now lets say i have opened 1024 default number of connections
Now we cannot create more connections. 

Understand how socket in websocket is different from the usual web server connection over a socket

10kb is for idle connection, not included framework (socket.io), and buffer - why buffer since we can send any kind of media like video, audio

For bare minimum for only socket exclusivley for about 100k connections we need about 4 GB of RAM  ( in idle state )

In any machine when we try to deploy a websocket server there is a need to configure the number of connections we make

There is a 3 layer way to configure

Global kernel - how many files linux will allow to create we need to specify : file-max

How many process can you run on linux ?
1024 (default)
ulimit - need to handle when handling in production

Need to look for port range as well 

how connection is made: unique IP + port

Hence connections are limited 

Phoenix is a framework which allows to create multiple connections at scale

Checkbox - project
Write a article on linux FS


